Welcome back in this exercise we're going to be building out a quick prompt asking users what the array
index value is of a particular item that is going to be randomly selected and show within the prompt.
So I need to introduce you to math and math is another built in object that is contained within Javascript.
So it's all ready to go and there's not nothing else additional that you need to do for math.
So let me first let's open up our consul and I'll show you a little bit more about math and math has
a few built in methods that we can do so we can do one called random and we can see that every time
we do math random we get this random number it starts out with 0 it's a decimal number and it's got
a whole bunch of numbers after that.
So basically it gives us the ability to generate a random value.
And at this point it's not really that useful because all of them are decimal something or other.
So we need to actually do something with this random math value and the way that we can do this we can
multiply it by numbers so if we do something like multiplied by 10 we can see that we get a random value
which is going to come in from anywhere from zero to nine point nine nine nine nine nine.
So anywhere within that number.
So we see that we can use math in order to generate this random number but we still have all of this
decimal place.
The rest of those characters.
So within math we also have the ability to round it.
We can round it to the floor.
We can round it to the ceiling and we are going to look more at math in the upcoming Lodder lessons.
But for now what I need it to do is I just want to demonstrate how he can get a random number depending
on how many items we have in the array so we can use math.
Floor and then we can use the math random that we were looking at earlier.
And we can multiply this by 10 and we see that when we use my floor it actually rounds down that number.
So this previously would have been eight point something or other.
And what we're doing with the math floor we're getting rid of all that decimal all those decimal numbers.
So one other last thing that we do want to take care of is that we want to add one to this equation
because we want to start out with 1 to 10 instead of 0 to 9.
So it just makes more sense.
And this is how you can get a random number from 1 to 10.
So now that we saw how math works and math is really super useful whenever you're creating some applications
and you want to have this randomizer effect.
So this is very useful for games.
So let's jump back into our editor and we're going to create an array with a bunch of animals in it
and then we're going to ask the user to guess which index value this.
This animal is appearing at and of course because we're actually the ones that are writing up the array.
We're going to know that we're going to be able to see that.
And this is where having that random value is going to be really interesting because it's going to make
this interaction for the user a lot more interesting so that we don't always have that seems static.
QUESTION So it could be something like maybe we're even ranking our favorite animals and we're starting
with our most favorite which is a cat than a dog and a rabbit.
And then a bird.
And then maybe lastly we could even do a fish.
So we've got an array of animals.
And next we need to select one of those randomly.
So what I want you to do is to pause the video.
Think back to the last previous lesson where we know that animals has a length to it and see if you
can get a random number generated from using the math value if you can get a random index value for
this particular array and then going to show you how to do that coming up.
So pause the video give it a shot and I'll show you the solution.
Coming up
welcome back and I hope you had the opportunity to try the set for yourself and let's just go back out
here will refresh the page and we know that we've got our animals array and every array has a length.
We know that there's five items within that array so we can actually use this to generate a random number.
So let's just do random index.
And this is where we're going to use math.
So this is not built in object that has a bunch of properties and methods attached to it and we are
going to look closer at that later on in the upcoming lessons as we progress through this course.
But for now it's just important to see that we do have ability to generate some random numbers and that
basically makes our javascript a little bit more interesting.
So what we want to do here is we want to multiply it by animals length.
So this is actually going to give us a random index value and then let's just Konsole lockdown for now.
And in the next part we're going to make use of that within our prompt.
So we see that we've got a random index.
And now let's refresh it.
We see that we've got zero or gone all the way up to for some just refreshing it a bunch of times.
So everything looks to be working.
And now we can actually select out a random item from our array.
So what I want you to do now again is to pause the video and set this up so where console logging out
our random item from this array.
So we've got five items in that array.
Our able to pick a random one using math.
So try it out and I'm going to show you the solution.
Suppose the video and I had the opportunity to try to save it for yourself and the solution is to use
the random index variable as our index value that we want to find.
So now when we go back and we refresh it we get a random collection of values coming out of the array.
So now the next step is to simply put that value out into the prompt.
So let's let's create our prompt.
So this is our message to the user.
And here we want it to prompt them.
So we get a prompt and the question is which index value is and maybe what we can do here instead of
canceling it out.
Just call it random random animal.
And this makes it a little bit easier when we're using variables to place that into here and it also
makes it more reusable so that you can pick up this random value and use that anywhere within our Code
Switch index value is the random animal.
And next what we need to do is we need to check to see if the users value is correct.
So let's let's take a look at this as well.
And here we're going to use that Teron ary operator that we looked at earlier which actually is going
to give us the ability to compare what the result is and provide either wrong or correct response.
So this will be response and this one we're going to take a look at the response back here to the message.
So this should be a numeric value for the index value.
And next we need to compare it to the random index value.
So we need to see if it's equal to this random index value and you can bracket around that so it's more
readable.
So just do those rounded brackets.
In next we're going to provide the solution.
So if that condition is true then we're going to put correct.
Otherwise we're going to have put wrong.
And we can also even add to it wrong.
It was and put a space there and concatenate that together and then maybe we can even supply that answer
so that this would be the correct response that we were expecting from the user.
And lastly let's let's alert that out.
So we're just going to alert out the response and let's try to say it.
So now we're ready to try it to ask the user what index value is this random animal and we can see if
the user gets the correct response.
So go out refresh your browser which index value is rabbit.
So we see that it's 0 1 2.
So the correct answer should be two.
But let's put three and we see wrong.
It was two.
So let's try this again.
What index values Ravitz already got that one.
So let's try it again and for some reason it seems like we keep getting Robert.
So let's try this again.
Which index value was fish.
So that was just some random chance that we kept getting rabbit three times in a row.
So now we've got which index value is fish.
So we need to specify which item it is in the index.
So let's give it a value of four and we see that we are correct.
So are you going to have some fun with this.
And you see how much more interesting random makes things as we don't know which item from that array
is going to be popping up.
And we were able to use it in a combination with the prompt and the terror and every operator in order
to return back a response checking to see if the user answered correctly or not.
So the next lesson we're going to be looking at how we can modify our raise.
So right now we've been working with a fairly static static array.
We've done some modifications within the console but I'm going to show you how to do that within the
code as well.
So that's coming up.